[Music]
you might have seen this symbol before
whether it says a temporary tattoo or at
a Chinese temple it's called the
yin-yang symbol it comes from Taoism a
religion born in China and it has far
more meaning than you probably realize
the yen is the dark swirl and the yang
is the light one and each side has a dot
of the opposite color which gives a clue
to the meaning of yin and yang
everything contains the seed of its
opposite Darth Vader has the seed of
goodness and Luke has the potential to
follow his father to the dark side like
Luke and his father yin and yang are not
total opposites they are relative to
each other
Taoist believed that the universe is
made up of energies vibrations and
matter which behave differently in
different contexts something can begin
or young depending on well depending on
lots of things so while wheat that's
growing is young when it's being reaped
its Yin a waves crest is young and the
trough is Yin villages on the sunny side
of a valley in China have names like Luo
yang or Xian but on the shady side for
example of the Yangtze River Valley
there's Jang yen the break is yen to the
gas pedals Jung
an eggshell is young the egg inside is
Yin you think you're getting it young is
harder stronger brighter and faster but
one can turn into the other or our two
sides of the same coin the sunbeams are
young in comparison to the shadows the
pitch is young the catch is yin the yang
starts in action and the yin receives it
completes it yin is the inside space of
a cup wouldn't be a cup without it young
is the cup the coffee's heat however is
young and it's blackness is yin yang
goes berserk sometimes but there's some
very powerful yen's too if they don't
quite go berserk yin is the darker swirl
the female but there is a white dot in
it and yang is the lighter the male but
it has a black dot water flowing calmly
in a river is yin but when it goes over
the waterfall it's very young toothpicks
are Yin compared with a telephone pole
the back of a person is more young than
the front the top of the person is the
young end Taoism teaches that there is a
power in the universe it's higher deeper
and truer than any other force they call
it the Dao it means the way like the
force in Star Wars the dow has two sides
unlike other religions where the higher
power is all good and perhaps has an all
evil rival Taoism teaches that we need
to learn from both yin and yang and
unlike religions with gods that are
personal the higher power in Taoism is
not Taoist believe that living in
harmony with the way a person will not
have to fight against the universe's
natural flow so for example listen more
argue less be ready to back up or undo
something and you will make even faster
progress don't worry about being the
best be who you are live simply
Asians take you away from the Dow the
wise person is flexible Daoists a
learning to use the Dow is what Taoism
is all about and that's why you should
know your yen from your young
[Music]